.\" data_boar.1 - man page for Data Boar (application; PyPI distribution: data-boar)
.\" View as: man data-boar (primary), man data_boar or man lgpd_crawler (symlink aliases)
.TH DATA-BOAR 1 "May 2026" "Data Boar 1.7.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
data-boar, data_boar, lgpd_crawler \- enterprise data discovery and risk governance (Data Boar)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B data-boar
[
.B \-\-demo
]
[
.B \-\-config
.I FILE
]
[
.B \-\-web
]
[
.B \-\-port
.I PORT
]
[
.B \-\-host
.I ADDR
]
[
.B \-\-reset\-data
]
[
.B \-\-export\-audit\-trail
[
.I PATH
]
]
[
.B \-\-tenant
.I NAME
]
[
.B \-\-technician
.I NAME
]
.
.P
.B lgpd_crawler
is accepted as an alias; both names refer to the same application.
.P
The actual entry point is:
.br
.RS 4
.B data-boar
[
.I OPTIONS
]
.RE
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Data Boar
is an enterprise data discovery and risk governance engine. It helps organizations map personal and sensitive data across configured sources for LGPD, GDPR, CCPA, HIPAA, and related programmes (inventory and triage — not legal advice).
.
.P
It discovers and maps potential PII and sensitive data using configurable
.I regex
patterns and an
.I ML
classifier (TF-IDF + RandomForest), with optional
.I DL
(sentence embeddings) for improved detection.
Out-of-the-box it recognises common PII (CPF, email, phone, SSN, etc.) and sensitive categories (health, religion, political affiliation, gender, biometric, genetic, race, union, PEP, sex life).
No raw sample content is stored; only metadata is written to a local SQLite database.
The application produces Excel reports with multiple sheets (findings, recommendations, trends, report info) and a sensitivity/risk heatmap PNG.
.
.P
Supported targets include: SQL databases (PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, SQLite, SQL Server, Oracle), local or mounted filesystems, optional Power BI workspaces, Power Apps (Dataverse), remote shares (SharePoint, WebDAV, SMB, NFS), and REST APIs.
Optional features include: possible minor data detection (LGPD Art. 14, GDPR Art. 8), aggregated/cross-referenced identification risk (quasi-identifiers per table/file), and optional API key protection for the web API.
.
.P
The application can be run as a one-shot CLI tool or as a long-running web API with a dashboard.
Each scan is stored as a session with optional
.I tenant/customer
and
.I technician/operator
tags for attribution.
.
.SH SECURITY
The web API sends security headers on all responses: X-Content-Type-Options, X-Frame-Options,
Content-Security-Policy (CSP), Referrer-Policy, Permissions-Policy, and HSTS when the request is HTTPS.
CSP can be tightened via environment/config or at the reverse proxy.
.P
Database and MongoDB connection URLs encode user and password (e.g. special characters like @, :, /, # are percent-encoded) so credentials do not break URL parsing; no extra configuration is required.
When
.I api.require_api_key
is true, GET /config returns 401 without a valid API key, protecting the config file (which may contain credentials) from unauthenticated access.
.P
Technicians: protect the Configuration page when the API is exposed to untrusted networks by enabling
.I api.require_api_key
and using a strong key; run behind a reverse proxy with TLS for production.
See
.I SECURITY.md
and
.I docs/security.md
(EN), and
.I docs/deploy/DEPLOY.md
(Security and hardening) for details.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-demo
Zero\-config demonstration mode: create a temp workspace under
.IR /tmp/data_boar_demo/
(or the OS temp directory) with
.IR demo.config.yaml ,
a synthetic filesystem corpus,
.IR reports/ ,
and SQLite DB; run an initial scan and start the dashboard on loopback (\fB127.0.0.1\fR) with plaintext HTTP.
Does not read
.B config.yaml
from the current working directory.
Does not require
.BR \-\-config .
Implies
.BR \-\-web
and
.BR \-\-allow\-insecure\-http .
Temporary files are removed when the process exits.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-config " FILE
Path to the configuration file (YAML or JSON).
Defaults to
.IR config.yaml .
Used both for one\-shot audits and to resolve API options when starting the web server.
.
.TP
.B \-\-web
Start the REST API server instead of running a one\-shot audit.
When this flag is set the process does not run a scan automatically; scans are triggered via the dashboard or HTTP (e.g.\&
.BR curl (1)).
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-port " PORT
Port for the API when
.B \-\-web
is set.
Defaults to
.IR 8088 .
Ignored in one\-shot mode.
Can be overridden by
.B api.port
in the configuration file.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-host " ADDR
Bind address for the API when
.B \-\-web
is set (e.g.\&
.BR 127.0.0.1 ", " 0.0.0.0 ).
Overrides
.B api.host
in the configuration file and the
.B API_HOST
environment variable.
If omitted, the bind address is resolved in this order:
.BR api.host ", " API_HOST ", "
then a safe default of
.B 127.0.0.1
(loopback) for desktop/CLI use.
Ignored in one\-shot audit mode.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-https\-cert\-file " PATH
PEM certificate file for HTTPS when
.B \-\-web
is set. Must be used together with
.BR \-\-https\-key\-file
(or
.B api.https_cert_file
and
.B api.https_key_file
in the configuration). TLS baseline is 1.2 or newer. Without both certificate and key, startup fails unless
.B \-\-allow\-insecure\-http
(or
.B api.allow_insecure_http
in config) is set.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-https\-key\-file " PATH
PEM private key file for HTTPS when
.B \-\-web
is set. Paired with
.BR \-\-https\-cert\-file .
.
.TP
.B \-\-allow\-insecure\-http
Explicit risk acceptance: serve the dashboard over plaintext HTTP (no TLS between clients and this process). Use only on trusted loopback or lab networks. For production, prefer TLS via cert/key flags or terminate TLS at a reverse proxy. Can be set via
.B api.allow_insecure_http
in the configuration instead of this flag. The default Docker image command passes this flag so the container runs without mounted certificates.
.
.TP
.B \-\-validate\-config
Pre\-flight validation: parse the main configuration file (YAML or JSON), check connector type/driver recognition and required keys per target; warn on unset
.BR *_from_env
variables and on missing optional SQL driver packages (offline import probe only; no network or DB connect). Exit
.B 0
with
.BR [OK]
or
.B 1
with
.BR [INVALID] .
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-web ", " \-\-reset\-data ", or " \-\-export\-audit\-trail .
.
.TP
.B \-\-diff SESSION_A SESSION_B
Compare findings between two scan sessions (UUIDs) in the configured SQLite database. Prints new, resolved, and severity\-changed rows to stdout. Use
.BR \-\-fail\-on\-new\-high
with
.BR \-\-diff
to exit
.B 1
when new HIGH findings appear in SESSION_B (CI gate). Unknown session UUID exits
.B 2 .
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-web ", " \-\-reset\-data ", " \-\-export\-audit\-trail ", or " \-\-validate\-config .
.
.TP
.B \-\-fail\-on\-new\-high
When used with
.BR \-\-diff :
exit
.B 1
if SESSION_B has any new HIGH\-sensitivity finding vs SESSION_A; otherwise exit
.B 0
(unless a session UUID is invalid).
.
.TP
.B \-\-export\-dsar SESSION_ID
Export findings for one scan session as DSAR\-oriented JSON (metadata\-first; LGPD Art. 18 / GDPR Art. 15 framing). Print to stdout or use
.BR \-\-dsar\-output PATH .
Unknown or empty session yields empty
.B findings_by_source
and exit
.B 0 .
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-web ", " \-\-reset\-data ", " \-\-export\-audit\-trail ", " \-\-validate\-config ", or " \-\-diff .
.
.TP
.B \-\-dsar\-output PATH
Write DSAR JSON to
.B PATH
instead of stdout. Requires
.BR \-\-export\-dsar .
.
.TP
.B \-\-dsar\-include\-samples
With
.BR \-\-export\-dsar :
include raw sample fields from stored finding rows when present (SQLite stores metadata only by default).
.
.TP
.B \-\-scan\-compressed
When set, treat
.B file_scan.scan_compressed
as true for this run: scan inside supported archives (zip, tar, 7z, etc.). May increase run time and I/O.
.
.TP
.B \-\-content\-type\-check
When set, treat
.B file_scan.use_content_type
as true for this run: infer file type from magic bytes, not only extension (helps find renamed or cloaked files). Adds extra I/O and CPU per file.
.
.TP
.B \-\-scan\-stego
When set, treat
.B file_scan.scan_for_stego
as true for this run: append lightweight byte-entropy hints for image/audio/video containers (heuristic only; not proof of hidden payload). May increase read size per rich-media file.
.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-data
Dangerous maintenance operation: wipes all scan sessions, findings and failures from the SQLite database, deletes generated Excel reports and heatmap PNGs under
.I report.output_dir
and records a row in the
.I data_wipe_log
table.
No scan is started; the process exits after the reset.
See SECURITY.md before use in production.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-export\-audit\-trail " PATH
Export a JSON audit trail from the SQLite database (wipe log, session summary, maturity assessment HMAC summary when rows exist; future: build integrity anchor). Does not modify the database. If
.I PATH
is omitted or is
.BR \- ,
write to standard output; otherwise write to the given file. Cannot be combined with
.B \-\-web
or
.BR \-\-reset\-data .
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
and
.I PLAN_BUILD_IDENTITY_RELEASE_INTEGRITY.md
in the repository.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-tenant " NAME
Optional tenant or customer name for the scan in CLI (one\-shot) mode.
Stored as
.I tenant_name
on the session and written to the "Report info" sheet and dashboard.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-technician " NAME
Optional technician or operator name for the scan in CLI (one\-shot) mode.
Stored as
.I technician_name
on the session and written to the "Report info" sheet and dashboard.
.
.TP
.B \-\-jurisdiction\-hint
Opt\-in for this run: add heuristic jurisdiction notes (e.g.\& US\-CA CCPA/CPRA, Colorado, Japan APPI) to the Excel Report info sheet when metadata signals suggest possible relevance.
Not a legal conclusion; also configurable under
.BR report.jurisdiction_hints .
Stored on the session when set via CLI or API.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The main config file (YAML or JSON) defines:
.IP \(bu 2
.B targets
\- list of databases, filesystems, APIs, shares (name, type, connection or path).
.IP \(bu 2
.B file_scan
\- extensions, recursive, scan_sqlite_as_db, sample_limit.
.IP \(bu 2
.B report
\- output_dir; optionally
.B recommendation_overrides
(list of norm_tag_pattern with base_legal, risk, recommendation, priority, relevant_for) for custom recommendation text per category (e.g.\& health, religion, political).
.IP \(bu 2
.B api
\- port;
.B host
(bind address; optional; CLI
.B \-\-host
and
.B API_HOST
can override);
optionally require_api_key, api_key or api_key_from_env for API key protection (GET /health remains public).
.IP \(bu 2
.B sqlite_path
\- path to the SQLite database (default:
.IR audit_results.db ).
.IP \(bu 2
.B scan
\- max_workers for parallelism.
.IP \(bu 2
Optional:
.B rate_limit
\- global safety limits to avoid accidental overload: enabled, max_concurrent_scans, min_interval_seconds, grace_for_running_status. When enabled, API/dashboard scan-start endpoints may return HTTP 429 with a JSON body containing
.I error
and
.I reason
fields (the CLI only logs warnings and exit codes remain unchanged). See
.I docs/USAGE.md
and
.I data-boar (5)
(or
.I data_boar (5)
or
.I lgpd_crawler (5))
for full configuration examples.
.IP \(bu 2
Optional:
.B detection
(minor_age_threshold, minor_cross_reference, aggregated_identification_enabled, quasi_identifier_mapping),
.B ml_patterns_file
,
.B dl_patterns_file
,
.B regex_overrides_file
,
.B sensitivity_detection.ml_terms
/
.B .dl_terms
,
.B learned_patterns
.
.P
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
and
.I docs/SENSITIVITY_DETECTION.md
for the full schema and examples.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CONFIG_PATH
Path to the configuration file used by the web API.
When the server is started with
.B \-\-web
and no
.B \-\-config
path is given, the application loads configuration from
.B CONFIG_PATH
if set, or from
.IR config.yaml
in the current working directory.
.
.TP
.B AUDIT_API_KEY
When
.B api.api_key_from_env
is set in config and
.B api.require_api_key
is true, the API key is read from this variable (alternative to
.B api.api_key
in the config file).
.
.TP
.B API_HOST
When
.B \-\-web
is set and
.B \-\-host
is not passed, the bind address falls back to
.B api.host
in config, then this variable, then
.BR 127.0.0.1 .
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
and
.BR core/host_resolution.py .
.
.TP
.B DATA_BOAR_SQL_SAMPLE_LIMIT
Optional integer (clamped between 1 and 10000): when set in the process environment it
.B replaces
.B file_scan.sample_limit
for SQLAlchemy and Snowflake column sampling only, without editing YAML.
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
(\(lqRelational database sampling\(rq).
.
.TP
.B DATA_BOAR_SAMPLE_STATEMENT_TIMEOUT_MS
Optional integer: overrides the short read timeout budget (milliseconds) for generated sampling statements on database targets when set in the process environment.
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
(\(lqSRE sampling knobs\(rq).
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config.yaml
Default configuration file (targets, file_scan, report, api, sqlite_path, scan, optional detection and pattern files).
.
.TP
.I audit_results.db
SQLite database for sessions, findings and failures (path set by
.BR sqlite_path ).
.
.TP
.I Relatorio_Auditoria_*.xlsx
Excel reports per session, under
.B report.output_dir
(with sheets: Report info, Database findings, Filesystem findings, Scan failures, Recommendations, Trends, etc.).
.
.TP
.I heatmap_*.png
Sensitivity/risk heatmap images per session, in the same directory as the Excel reports.
.
.SH WEB INTERFACE
When the API is running (\fB\-\-web\fR), open in a browser:
.
.TP
.B /
Dashboard: scan status, "Start scan" button, tenant/technician inputs, recent sessions and download links, progress chart.
.TP
.B /reports
List of all sessions with Download link per session (regenerates Excel report).
.TP
.B /config
Edit configuration (YAML) in the browser; "Save configuration" writes to the config file used for the next scan.
.TP
.B /help
Quickstart, config examples, sensitivity detection and recommendation_overrides, links to README and USAGE (EN/pt\-BR).
.TP
.B /about
Application name, version, author, license.
.TP
.B /docs
Interactive API documentation (OpenAPI/Swagger).
.TP
.B /health
Liveness/readiness JSON; stays public even when
.B api.require_api_key
protects other routes.
.TP
.B /status
Scan/engine status JSON (includes transport metadata useful for dashboards).
.TP
.B /list
List scan sessions (metadata) as JSON.
.TP
.B POST /scan
Start a full audit of all targets in the current configuration. Optional JSON body may include
.BR tenant ", " technician ", " scan_compressed ", " content_type_check ", " scan_for_stego ", " jurisdiction_hint
(see OpenAPI at
.B /docs
and
.IR docs/USAGE.md ).
.TP
.B /report
Download the Excel report for the latest session.
.TP
.B /heatmap
Download the heatmap PNG for the latest session.
.TP
.B /logs
Download the audit log for the latest session.
.TP
.BI /reports/ session_id
Excel report for
.IR session_id
(regenerated on demand).
.TP
.BI /heatmap/ session_id
Heatmap PNG for
.IR session_id .
.TP
.BI /logs/ session_id
Audit log for
.IR session_id .
.TP
.BI "PATCH /sessions/" session_id
Update tenant/customer; JSON body uses a
.B tenant
key (see EXAMPLES).
.TP
.BI "PATCH /sessions/" session_id /technician
Update technician/operator; JSON body uses a
.B technician
key (see EXAMPLES).
.TP
.B /findings
JSON export of all findings for the latest completed session (unified schema with
.I source_type
per row; filesystem rows may include
.I content_fingerprint
and source metadata).
.TP
.B /findings/csv
Same findings as
.B /findings
for the latest session, as a UTF\-8 CSV download.
.TP
.BI "/findings/" session_id
Findings for
.I session_id
as JSON (unified schema).
.TP
.BI "/findings/" session_id /csv
Findings for
.I session_id
as UTF\-8 CSV.
.P
The "Start scan" button triggers
.B POST /scan
(a full audit of all targets in the current config).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Zero\-config demo
.TP
Synthetic corpus and dashboard (ignores
.B config.yaml
in the CWD):
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-demo
.RE
.
.SS One\-shot CLI (config\-driven)
.TP
Minimal scan with default config:
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml
.RE
.
.TP
Scan with tenant and technician metadata:
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml \-\-tenant "Acme Corp" \-\-technician "Alice Colleague-V"
.RE
.
.TP
Wipe all sessions, findings and generated reports (dangerous):
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml \-\-reset\-data
.RE
.
.SS Web API
Without TLS certificate and key paths, you must pass
.B \-\-allow\-insecure\-http
(or set
.B api.allow_insecure_http
in the configuration) for plaintext HTTP.
.
.TP
Start the API on port 8088 (plaintext, explicit opt\-in):
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml \-\-web \-\-allow\-insecure\-http \-\-port 8088
.RE
.
.TP
HTTPS (PEM cert + key; TLS >= 1.2):
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml \-\-web \-\-https\-cert\-file server.crt \-\-https\-key\-file server.key
.RE
.
.TP
Use CONFIG_PATH and start the server:
.RS
.nf
export CONFIG_PATH=/etc/lgpd\-audit/config.yaml
data-boar \-\-web \-\-allow\-insecure\-http \-\-port 8088
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Listen on all interfaces (e.g.\& LAN or container without Docker env); use only with network controls:
.RS
.B data-boar \-\-config config.yaml \-\-web \-\-allow\-insecure\-http \-\-host 0.0.0.0 \-\-port 8088
.RE
.
.SS curl \- API examples
.TP
Start a full audit:
.RS
.nf
curl \-X POST http://localhost:8088/scan
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Start a scan with tenant and technician:
.RS
.nf
curl \-X POST http://localhost:8088/scan \\
  \-H "Content\-Type: application/json" \\
  \-d '{"tenant": "Acme Corp", "technician": "Alice Colleague-V"}'
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Check scan status:
.RS
.nf
curl http://localhost:8088/status
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Health check (liveness/readiness; always public even when API key is required):
.RS
.nf
curl http://localhost:8088/health
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
List sessions:
.RS
.nf
curl http://localhost:8088/list
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download latest Excel report:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o report.xlsx http://localhost:8088/report
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download latest heatmap PNG:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o heatmap.png http://localhost:8088/heatmap
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download latest audit log:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o audit.log http://localhost:8088/logs
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download report and heatmap for a specific session:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o report.xlsx "http://localhost:8088/reports/SESSION_ID"
curl \-o heatmap.png "http://localhost:8088/heatmap/SESSION_ID"
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download audit log for a session:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o audit.log "http://localhost:8088/logs/SESSION_ID"
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download latest findings as JSON:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o findings.json http://localhost:8088/findings
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download latest findings as CSV:
.RS
.nf
curl \-o findings.csv http://localhost:8088/findings/csv
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download findings for a session (JSON):
.RS
.nf
curl \-o findings.json "http://localhost:8088/findings/SESSION_ID"
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Download findings for a session (CSV):
.RS
.nf
curl \-o findings.csv "http://localhost:8088/findings/SESSION_ID/csv"
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
Update tenant/customer for a session (PATCH):
.RS
.nf
curl \-X PATCH "http://localhost:8088/sessions/SESSION_ID" \\
  \-H "Content\-Type: application/json" \\
  \-d '{"tenant": "New Tenant Name"}'
.fi
.RE
.
.TP
When API key is required (X-API-Key or Bearer):
.RS
.nf
curl \-X POST http://localhost:8088/scan \\
  \-H "X-API-Key: your-secret-key"
# or
curl \-X POST http://localhost:8088/scan \\
  \-H "Authorization: Bearer your-secret-key"
.fi
.RE
.
.SH INSTALLATION OF THIS MAN PAGE
Install the troff sources from this repository as
.BR data-boar (1)
and
.BR data-boar (5)
(the installed filenames use a hyphen, matching the packaged CLI
.BR data-boar ).
Create optional symlinks so
.BR data_boar
and
.BR lgpd_crawler
also resolve (legacy aliases).
.PP
Two common routes:
.TP
.B System\-wide
(with
.BR sudo ;
typical Linux or BSD)
.RS
.nf
sudo mkdir \-p /usr/local/share/man/man1/ /usr/local/share/man/man5/
sudo chmod 755 /usr/local/share/man/man1/ /usr/local/share/man/man5/
sudo cp docs/data_boar.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/data-boar.1
sudo cp docs/data_boar.5 /usr/local/share/man/man5/data-boar.5
sudo chmod 644 /usr/local/share/man/man1/data-boar.1 \\
    /usr/local/share/man/man5/data-boar.5
sudo ln \-sf data-boar.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/data_boar.1
sudo ln \-sf data-boar.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/lgpd_crawler.1
sudo ln \-sf data-boar.5 /usr/local/share/man/man5/data_boar.5
sudo ln \-sf data-boar.5 /usr/local/share/man/man5/lgpd_crawler.5
sudo mandb
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B User\-local
(no
.BR sudo ;
writes under your home directory; default
.BR manpath
on many distributions already includes
.IR ~/.local/share/man )
.RS
.nf
mkdir \-p ~/.local/share/man/man1 ~/.local/share/man/man5
cp docs/data_boar.1 ~/.local/share/man/man1/data-boar.1
cp docs/data_boar.5 ~/.local/share/man/man5/data-boar.5
chmod 644 ~/.local/share/man/man1/data-boar.1 \\
    ~/.local/share/man/man5/data-boar.5
ln \-sf data-boar.1 ~/.local/share/man/man1/data_boar.1
ln \-sf data-boar.1 ~/.local/share/man/man1/lgpd_crawler.1
ln \-sf data-boar.5 ~/.local/share/man/man5/data_boar.5
ln \-sf data-boar.5 ~/.local/share/man/man5/lgpd_crawler.5
mandb \-u
.fi
.RE
.PP
Source paths remain
.I docs/data_boar.1
and
.I docs/data_boar.5
in the repository; only the installed primary names use the hyphen.
.PP
The
.B chmod 755
on system directories ensures all users can traverse them (new directories may be 750 with a restrictive umask). The
.B chmod 644
on the installed pages ensures all users can read them.
.PP
On some BSD systems use
.B "sudo makewhatis"
instead of
.BR mandb .
If a directory does not exist,
.B "sudo mkdir -p"
creates it so that
.B "sudo cp"
does not fail with "No such file or directory".
.PP
After installation, view the pages with:
.RS
.B "man data-boar"
or the alias
.B "man data_boar"
or
.B "man lgpd_crawler"
(section 1), and
.B "man 5 data-boar"
or
.B "man 5 data_boar"
or
.B "man 5 lgpd_crawler"
(section 5).
.RE
.
.SH TWO MAN PAGES (SECTION 1 AND 5)
This manual is in section
.B 1
(commands).
A second manual in section
.B 5
describes
.I configuration and file formats
(config file topology, regex/ML/DL pattern files, examples).
View it with
.BR "man 5 data-boar"
or
.BR "man 5 data_boar"
or
.BR "man 5 lgpd_crawler" .
On Unix/Linux/BSD, section 1 is for programs and commands; section 5 is for file formats and conventions.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR data-boar (5),
.BR data_boar (5),
.BR lgpd_crawler (5)
(configuration and pattern file formats),
.BR python (1),
.BR curl (1).
.P
Project documentation in the source tree:
.IR README.md ,
.IR docs/USAGE.md ,
.IR docs/USAGE.pt_BR.md ,
.IR docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md
(connectivity, credentials, Docker; failures and suggested next steps),
.IR docs/SENSITIVITY_DETECTION.md ,
.IR docs/PLAN_SENSITIVE_CATEGORIES_ML_DL.md ,
.IR docs/deploy/DEPLOY.md
(Docker and image on Docker Hub:
.IR fabioleitao/data_boar ).
