.\" data_boar.5 - file formats and configuration for Data Boar (PyPI distribution: data-boar)
.\" View as: man 5 data-boar (primary), man 5 data_boar or man 5 lgpd_crawler (symlink aliases)
.TH DATA-BOAR 5 "May 2026" "Data Boar 1.7.4" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
data-boar config, data_boar config, lgpd_crawler config \- configuration and pattern file formats for Data Boar (compliance-aware discovery and mapping)
.
.SH WHY TWO MAN PAGES (SECTION 1 AND 5)
On Linux, BSD and most Unix-like systems, the
.B man
command uses numbered
.I sections
to group manual pages by topic.
Section
.B 1
describes
.I executable programs and shell commands
(e.g. how to run the program and its options).
Section
.B 5
describes
.I file formats and conventions
(e.g. configuration files and their syntax).
.
.P
This project provides two man pages in different sections; the primary installed names are
.BR data-boar
and
.BR data-boar (5);
symlinks also expose
.BR data_boar
and
.BR lgpd_crawler
:
.TP
.B "man data-boar"
or
.B "man data_boar"
or
.B "man lgpd_crawler"
(or
.BR "man 1 data-boar" ,
.BR "man 1 data_boar" ,
.BR "man 1 lgpd_crawler" )
Shows the
.I command
and its options (config path, \-\-web, \-\-host, \-\-port, \-\-tenant, \-\-technician, \-\-scan\-compressed, \-\-content\-type\-check, \-\-reset\-data, API usage, curl examples).
Use this when you want to know how to run the application.
.TP
.B "man 5 data-boar"
or
.B "man 5 data_boar"
or
.B "man 5 lgpd_crawler"
Shows the
.I configuration and optional file formats
(main config topology, regex/ML/DL pattern files, examples).
Use this when you want to understand or edit config files and pattern definitions.
.
.P
If you type only
.B "man data-boar"
,
.B "man data_boar"
or
.B "man lgpd_crawler"
the system usually shows section 1 first (the command).
To open the config/file-format page explicitly, use
.BR "man 5 data-boar"
,
.BR "man 5 data_boar"
or
.BR "man 5 lgpd_crawler" .
.
.SH OVERVIEW
The application uses one main configuration file (YAML or JSON) and can optionally reference external files to
.I override
or
.I expand
regex patterns and to
.I train
the ML and DL classifiers.
This page describes the topology of those files and their formats, with examples compatible with the current application capabilities.
.
.SH TOPOLOGY
.IP \(bu 2
.B Main config file
(default
.IR config.yaml ):
defines targets (databases, filesystems, APIs, shares), file_scan, report, api, sqlite_path, scan,
.B rate_limit
and optional
.B timeouts
(connector defaults), plus optional paths to the files below.
.IP \(bu 2
.B regex_overrides_file
(optional): path to a YAML/JSON file listing custom
.I regex
patterns; merged with built-in patterns and matched against (column name + sample text).
.IP \(bu 2
.B ml_patterns_file
(optional): path to a YAML/JSON file with
.I ML
training terms (text + label: sensitive / non_sensitive).
Used by the TF-IDF + RandomForest classifier when no inline terms are provided.
.IP \(bu 2
.B dl_patterns_file
(optional): path to a YAML/JSON file with
.I DL
training terms (same format as ML).
Used by the optional sentence-embedding classifier when the DL extra is installed.
.IP \(bu 2
.B sensitivity_detection
(optional): inline section in the main config with
.I ml_terms
and/or
.I dl_terms
lists; when non-empty they override loading from
.B ml_patterns_file
/
.BR dl_patterns_file .
.IP \(bu 2
.B learned_patterns
(optional): section in the main config that enables writing
.I learned
terms (classified as sensitive during a run) to an output file, which you can later merge into
.B ml_patterns_file
to improve future scans.
.
.P
All paths in the main config can be absolute or relative to the process working directory.
.
.SH SECURITY AND CREDENTIALS
Database and MongoDB connection strings are built with URL-encoded user and password, so credentials containing @, :, / or # are handled correctly; no extra escaping is required in the config file.
When
.I api.require_api_key
is true, the Configuration page (GET /config) is protected and returns 401 without a valid X-API-Key or Bearer token.
Technicians: restrict config file permissions and enable
.I api.require_api_key
when the API is exposed to untrusted networks; see
.I SECURITY.md
and
.I docs/security.md
for fixes, regression tests, and full recommendations.
.
.P
Prefer credentials in the process environment instead of plaintext in the config on disk.
Each
.B targets
entry may set
.I pass_from_env
(or the alias
.IR password_from_env )
to the name of an environment variable holding the password, and
.I user_from_env
for the username.
At load time the loader copies those values into the in-memory
.I pass
and
.I user
fields (falling back to inline
.IR pass ,
.IR password ,
or
.I user
when the variable is unset or empty).
For API-type targets with an
.I auth
mapping, optional
.I token_from_env
and
.I client_secret_from_env
resolve the same way (plus top-level
.IR client_secret_from_env
for OAuth-style flows).
Never commit live secrets; keep env var names in config only.
.
.SH MAIN CONFIGURATION FILE
The main file (e.g.
.IR config.yaml )
is YAML or JSON.
Top-level keys:
.
.TP
.B targets
List of scan targets.
Each item has at least
.I name
and
.I type
(database, filesystem, api, sharepoint, webdav, smb, nfs, powerbi, dataverse, etc.), plus type-specific keys (driver, host, port, user, pass, database for DB; path, recursive for filesystem; etc.).
Optional credential indirection:
.IR pass_from_env " / " password_from_env ,
.IR user_from_env ,
and (inside
.IR auth ,
when applicable)
.IR token_from_env " / " client_secret_from_env
(see
.B SECURITY AND CREDENTIALS
above).
.TP
.B file_scan
.I extensions
(list, e.g. [.txt, .csv, .pdf]), 
.I recursive
(bool),
.I scan_sqlite_as_db
(bool),
.I sample_limit
(integer);
optionally
.I scan_compressed
(bool, scan inside zip/tar/7z when supported),
.I use_content_type
(bool, magic\-byte / content\-type detection for renamed or cloaked files; extra I/O).
.TP
.B report
.I output_dir
(path);
optionally
.I recommendation_overrides
(list of norm_tag_pattern, base_legal, risk, recommendation, priority, relevant_for) to customise the Recommendations sheet per category.
.TP
.B api
.I port
(integer);
optionally
.I host
(bind address for the HTTP server, e.g.\&
.BR 127.0.0.1 " or " 0.0.0.0 ;
default resolution when unset is
.B 127.0.0.1
unless
.B API_HOST
is set or
.B "main.py \-\-web \-\-host"
overrides);
optionally
.I require_api_key
(bool),
.I api_key
(string) or
.I api_key_from_env
(env var name).
The web API also sends security headers (CSP, HSTS, Referrer-Policy, Permissions-Policy); see
.I SECURITY.md
and
.I docs/deploy/DEPLOY.md
for hardening and stricter CSP.
.TP
.B api.workers
(optional, integer) Number of HTTP server workers (uvicorn).
Default 1 (minimal footprint); increase to 2-4 for higher concurrent API traffic
(scans are I/O-bound so extra workers mainly help dashboard responsiveness
during an active scan). Distinct from
.BR scan.max_workers
(parallel scan targets).
.TP
.B licensing
(optional) Tier simulation block for lab and development environments.
Sub-key
.I licensing.effective_tier
accepts
.BR community ,
.BR pro ,
or
.BR enterprise .
When set, tier-gated features behave as if the named tier is active
without requiring a signed JWT token. Omit this block entirely in production;
a JWT
.I dbtier
claim overrides
.I effective_tier
when both are present. See
.IR docs/LICENSING_SPEC.md .
.TP
.B locale
(optional) Dashboard HTML locale configuration.
Controls the path-prefixed UI language (e.g.
.BR /en/ ,
.BR /pt-br/ ).
Sub-keys:
.I default_locale
(e.g.
.BR en ),
.I supported_locales
(list, e.g.
.BR "[en, pt-BR]" ),
.I cookie_name
(default:
.BR db_locale ),
.I cookie_max_age_seconds
(integer; default 31536000, one year).
Visiting
.B /
redirects to the negotiated locale prefix.
See
.IR docs/USAGE.md .
.TP
.B sqlite_path
Path to the SQLite database (e.g.
.IR audit_results.db ).
.TP
.B scan
.I max_workers
(integer, parallelism).
.TP
.B rate_limit
(optional) Global safeguards against accidental DoS or abuse:
.I enabled
(bool),
.I max_concurrent_scans
(integer, max running scans at the same time),
.I min_interval_seconds
(integer, minimum seconds between scan starts),
.I grace_for_running_status
(integer, optional extra tolerance when status still reports running).
When enabled, API endpoints that start scans may return HTTP 429 with a structured JSON body containing
.I error
and
.I reason
fields (the CLI only prints warnings).
.TP
.B timeouts
(optional) Global connection and read timeout defaults (seconds).
Sub-keys:
.I connect_seconds
(integer, default 25) and
.I read_seconds
(integer, default 90).
Per-target overrides on any target entry: set
.IR connect_timeout ,
.IR read_timeout ,
or
.I timeout
directly to override the global default for that source only.
See
.I docs/USAGE.md
(section: Timeouts for data source connections).
.TP
.B detection
(optional) Minor data and aggregated identification:
.I minor_age_threshold
(default 18),
.I minor_cross_reference
(bool),
.I minor_full_scan
(bool),
.I aggregated_identification_enabled
(bool),
.I aggregated_min_categories
(integer),
.I quasi_identifier_mapping
(list).
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection.connector_format_id_hint
(optional, bool, default false) When true, connectors pass declared SQL type
and length metadata (for example VARCHAR(N) on ID-like column names), which
may elevate a borderline LOW score to MEDIUM (tag:
.BR FORMAT_LENGTH_HINT_ID ).
Reduces false negatives on structured ID columns.
See
.IR docs/SENSITIVITY_DETECTION.md .
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection.fuzzy_column_match
(optional, bool, default false) When true, applies fuzzy string matching to
column names to catch variations of known sensitive field names (for example
cpf_num, email_address). Requires the optional
.I rapidfuzz
dependency (extra
.IR detection-fuzzy );
ignored when it is not installed.
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection.fuzzy_column_match_min_confidence
(optional, integer 0-100, default 25) Lower bound of the combined-confidence
band in which a fuzzy column-name match may elevate a finding to MEDIUM.
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection.fuzzy_column_match_max_confidence
(optional, integer 0-100, default 45) Upper bound of that band; it is capped
at
.I medium_confidence_threshold
minus one so normal MEDIUM and ML paths stay unchanged.
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection.fuzzy_column_match_min_ratio
(optional, integer 50-100, default 85) Minimum fuzzy match ratio (string
similarity) required for a column name to count as a match. Higher values
reduce false positives.
See
.IR docs/SENSITIVITY_DETECTION.md .
.TP
.B ml_patterns_file
Path to ML terms file (used if
.B sensitivity_detection.ml_terms
is not set).
.TP
.B dl_patterns_file
Path to DL terms file (used if
.B sensitivity_detection.dl_terms
is not set).
.TP
.B regex_overrides_file
Path to custom regex patterns file.
.TP
.B patterns_plugin_file
(optional) Path to a unified plugin YAML file validated at load time (ADR-0052).
May contain any combination of
.I regex_patterns ,
.I ml_patterns ,
and
.I dl_patterns
sections.
When non-empty, takes precedence over the separate legacy pattern file keys above.
See
.SH UNIFIED PLUGIN FILE
below and
.IR config/plugin_schema.yaml .
.TP
.B sensitivity_detection
(optional) Inline
.I ml_terms
and/or
.I dl_terms
(list of { text, label }).
.TP
.B learned_patterns
(optional)
.I enabled
(bool),
.I output_file
(path),
.I min_sensitivity
(HIGH/MEDIUM),
.I min_confidence
(integer),
.I require_pattern
(bool),
.I append
(bool),
.I exclude_if_in_ml_patterns
(bool).
.
.P
Example main config (excerpt):
.RS
.nf
\fBtargets:\fR
  \- name: "Produção_Postgres"
    type: database
    driver: postgresql+psycopg2
    host: 10.0.0.50
    port: 5432
    user: audit_user
    pass: secure_password
    # pass_from_env: MY_DB_PASSWORD   # optional: take password from env (recommended vs plaintext)
    # user_from_env: MY_DB_USER      # optional: take username from env
    database: customers_db
  \- name: "Documentos_LGPD"
    type: filesystem
    path: /home/user/Documents/LGPD
    recursive: true

\fBfile_scan:\fR
  extensions: [.txt, .csv, .pdf, .docx, .xlsx]
  recursive: true
  scan_sqlite_as_db: true
  sample_limit: 5
  # scan_compressed: false   # optional: scan inside archives
  # use_content_type: false   # optional: magic-byte detection (renamed files)

\fBreport:\fR
  output_dir: .
  recommendation_overrides:
    \- norm_tag_pattern: "health"
      base_legal: "LGPD Art. 5 II, 11; GDPR Art. 9"
      risk: "Health or medical condition data."
      recommendation: "Ensure legal basis and consent."
      priority: "CRÍTICA"
      relevant_for: "DPO, Compliance"

\fBapi:\fR
  port: 8088
  # host: 127.0.0.1   # optional bind address; see man 1 data-boar for CLI and API_HOST
  # https_cert_file: /path/server.crt   # optional: TLS for python main.py --web
  # https_key_file: /path/server.key    # optional: must pair with https_cert_file
  # allow_insecure_http: false           # explicit plaintext only when true (Docker image CMD often sets CLI flag instead)

\fBsqlite_path:\fR audit_results.db
\fBtimeouts:\fR
  connect_seconds: 25
  read_seconds: 90
\fBscan:\fR
  max_workers: 1

\fBml_patterns_file:\fR config/ml_patterns.yaml
\fBregex_overrides_file:\fR config/regex_overrides.yaml
.fi
.RE
.
.SH REGEX OVERRIDES FILE
Used to add or override regex patterns for value-based detection.
Set
.B regex_overrides_file
in the main config to the path of a YAML or JSON file.
.
.P
Format: a list of objects, each with:
.TP
.B name
(required) Short identifier (e.g. RG_BR, PLATE_BR). Shown in reports as
.IR pattern_detected .
.TP
.B pattern
(required) Regular expression (Python
.B re
syntax). Matched against (column name + sample text). Use word boundaries (e.g. \e\eb) to reduce false positives.
.TP
.B norm_tag
(optional) Label for compliance/reporting (e.g. "LGPD Art. 5", "Custom"). Default "Custom".
.
.P
You can use a root-level list or a key
.B patterns
or
.B regex
containing the list.
.
.P
Example (YAML):
.RS
.nf
\- name: "RG_BR"
  pattern: "\e\eb\e\ed{1,2}\e\.?\e\ed{3}\e\.?\e\ed{3}-?[0-9Xx]\e\eb"
  norm_tag: "LGPD Art. 5"

\- name: "PLATE_BR_OLD"
  pattern: "\e\eb[A-Z]{3}-?\e\ed{4}\e\eb"
  norm_tag: "Personal data context"

\- name: "CEP_BR"
  pattern: "\e\eb\e\ed{5}-?\e\ed{3}\e\eb"
  norm_tag: "LGPD Art. 5"
.fi
.RE
.
.P
Built-in patterns (no need to redefine unless overriding): LGPD_CPF, LGPD_CNPJ, EMAIL, CREDIT_CARD, PHONE_BR, CCPA_SSN, DATE_DMY.
.
.SH ML AND DL PATTERNS FILES
Both
.B ml_patterns_file
and
.B dl_patterns_file
use the same format.
They list training terms for the ML classifier (TF-IDF + RandomForest) and, when installed, the DL classifier (sentence embeddings).
.
.P
Format: a list of objects, each with:
.TP
.B text
(required) A phrase or token (e.g. "cpf", "religious affiliation", "health condition").
.TP
.B label
(required) Either
.B sensitive
(or
.BR 1 )
or
.B non_sensitive
(or
.BR 0 ).
.
.P
The file can be a root-level list or an object with key
.B patterns
or
.B terms
containing the list.
When
.B sensitivity_detection.ml_terms
or
.B sensitivity_detection.dl_terms
is set in the main config (non-empty), that list is used instead of loading from the corresponding file.
.
.P
Example (YAML) for ML/DL terms:
.RS
.nf
\- text: "cpf"
  label: sensitive
\- text: "email"
  label: sensitive
\- text: "data de nascimento"
  label: sensitive
\- text: "religious affiliation"
  label: sensitive
\- text: "political affiliation"
  label: sensitive
\- text: "item_count"
  label: non_sensitive
\- text: "config_file"
  label: non_sensitive
.fi
.RE
.
.P
Inline example in main config:
.RS
.nf
\fBsensitivity_detection:\fR
  ml_terms:
    \- { text: "cid", label: sensitive }
    \- { text: "religion", label: sensitive }
    \- { text: "gender", label: sensitive }
    \- { text: "system_log", label: non_sensitive }
  dl_terms:
    \- { text: "religious affiliation", label: sensitive }
    \- { text: "genetic data", label: sensitive }
.fi
.RE
.
.P
See
.I docs/sensitivity_terms_sensitive_categories.example.yaml
and
.I docs/PLAN_SENSITIVE_CATEGORIES_ML_DL.md
for a full set of sensitive-category terms (health, religion, political, PEP, race, union, genetic, biometric, sex life).
.
.SH UNIFIED PLUGIN FILE
Set
.B patterns_plugin_file
in the main config to a single YAML file that may define any combination of:
.TP
.B regex_patterns
List of { name, pattern, norm_tag } (same shape as
.B regex_overrides_file ).
.TP
.B ml_patterns
List of { text, label } training terms (same shape as
.B ml_patterns_file ).
.TP
.B dl_patterns
List of { text, label } training terms (same shape as
.B dl_patterns_file ).
.
.P
The loader validates the file against
.IR config/plugin_schema.yaml
before use.
When
.B patterns_plugin_file
is set and non-empty, it takes precedence over the legacy per-type file keys.
.
.P
Example skeleton (YAML):
.RS
.nf
regex_patterns:
  \- name: "RG_BR"
    pattern: "\e\eb\e\ed{1,2}\e\eb\.?\e\ed{3}\e\eb\.?\e\ed{3}-?[0-9Xx]\e\eb"
    norm_tag: "LGPD Art. 5"
ml_patterns:
  \- text: "cpf"
    label: sensitive
dl_patterns:
  \- text: "religious affiliation"
    label: sensitive
.fi
.RE
.
.SH LEARNED PATTERNS (OUTPUT)
When
.B learned_patterns.enabled
is true, the application writes terms that were classified as sensitive during the scan to
.BR learned_patterns.output_file .
You can merge these into your
.B ml_patterns_file
for the next run to improve detection.
.
.P
Config example:
.RS
.nf
learned_patterns:
  enabled: true
  output_file: learned_patterns.yaml
  min_sensitivity: HIGH
  min_confidence: 70
  min_term_length: 3
  require_pattern: true
  append: true
  exclude_if_in_ml_patterns: true
.fi
.RE
.
.P
The output file has the same list format as ML/DL terms (text + label: sensitive).
Merge entries into
.B ml_patterns_file
manually or with a script; then the next run will use the expanded set.
.
.SH FILES (SUMMARY)
.TP
.I config.yaml
Main configuration (targets, file_scan, report, api, sqlite_path, scan, optional detection and file paths).
.TP
.I config/regex_overrides.yaml
Example path for custom regex patterns (name, pattern, norm_tag).
.TP
.I config/ml_patterns.yaml
Example path for ML training terms (text, label).
.TP
.I config/dl_patterns.yaml
Example path for DL training terms (same format; can point to the same file as ML).
.TP
.I patterns_plugin.yaml
Example path for a unified plugin file (regex_patterns + ml_patterns + dl_patterns sections).
.TP
.I learned_patterns.yaml
Example output path when learned_patterns.enabled is true.
.
.SH INSTALLATION OF THIS MAN PAGE
Section 5 pages are installed in
.IR man5 .
Install both section 1 and 5 from the source tree as
.BR data-boar.1
and
.BR data-boar.5
(primary hyphenated names), then create symlinks for
.BR data_boar
and
.BR lgpd_crawler
aliases.
See the
.B "INSTALLATION OF THIS MAN PAGE"
section in
.BR data-boar (1)
(or
.BR data_boar (1)
or
.BR lgpd_crawler (1))
for the full sequence (system\-wide under
.IR /usr/local/share/man
or user\-local under
.IR ~/.local/share/man ,
copy
.I docs/data_boar.1
and
.I docs/data_boar.5
to
.IR data-boar.1
and
.IR data-boar.5
in
.I man1
and
.IR man5 ,
then
.B "ln -sf data-boar.1 data_boar.1"
,
.B "ln -sf data-boar.1 lgpd_crawler.1"
,
.B "ln -sf data-boar.5 data_boar.5"
and
.B "ln -sf data-boar.5 lgpd_crawler.5"
in the respective directories,
.BR mandb ).
.PP
After installation, view this page with:
.RS
.B "man 5 data-boar"
or
.B "man 5 data_boar"
or
.B "man 5 lgpd_crawler"
.RE
.PP
To view the command and options (section 1) use
.B "man data-boar"
,
.B "man data_boar"
or
.B "man lgpd_crawler"
(or
.BR "man 1 data-boar" ,
.BR "man 1 data_boar" ,
.BR "man 1 lgpd_crawler" ).
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR data-boar (1),
.BR data_boar (1),
.BR lgpd_crawler (1)
(command, options, API, curl examples),
.IR README.md ,
.IR docs/USAGE.md ,
.IR docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md
(failures, connectivity, credentials, Docker; see Scan failures sheet and suggested next steps),
.IR docs/SENSITIVITY_DETECTION.md ,
.IR docs/sensitivity_terms_sensitive_categories.example.yaml ,
.IR docs/regex_overrides.example.yaml ,
.IR docs/deploy/DEPLOY.md .
